README.md, before:

# Audionodes

Audio generation in blender nodes.

We now support MIDI keyboards but only on Linux.

_We support Windows now! Testing and reporting back of errors is highly encouraged!_

Lisenced under GPLv.3. (https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html)

## Install

For now Audionodes doesn't come with the required libraries. You need to install `PyGame` and `NumPy` for it to work.

### I am running Windows

### Installing python

We need a fresh Python interpreter on Windows. Grab the one that matches your architechture. Grab the one that matches Blender's Python. As of writing this, that is Python 3.5. If you are running a 64-bit copy of windows, download Python (here)[https://www.python.org/ftp/python/3.5.2/python-3.5.2-amd64-webinstall.exe]. If you are running a 32-bit one, (here)[https://www.python.org/ftp/python/3.5.2/python-3.5.2-webinstall.exe].

For this part, just follow the on-screen instructions.

### Installing dependences.

Here is a nifty little script that installs all it needs:

```
import pip
print("Installing PyGame")
pip.main(["install", "PyGame", "--user"])
print("\nInstalling NumPy")
pip.main(["install", "NumPy", "--user"])
import sys
import os
import os.path

with open(os.getenv('APPDATA')+"/ANPath.py", "w") as f:
    f.write("def importAll(modules):\n")
    f.write("    import os\n")
    f.write("    wd = os.getcwd()\n")
    f.write("    import sys\n")
    f.write("    sys.path.extend("+str(sys.path)+")\n")
    f.write("    os.chdir("+str([os.path.abspath(os.path.join(os.getenv('APPDATA'), os.pardir))+"\\Local\\Programs\\Python\\Python35"])[1:-1]+")\n")
    f.write("    import numpy as np\n")
    f.write("    import pygame as p\n")
    f.write("    import pygame.midi as midi\n")
    f.write("    os.chdir(wd)\n")
    f.write("    result = []\n")
    f.write("    for module in modules:\n")
    f.write("        if module == 'pygame':\n")
    f.write("            result.append(p)\n")
    f.write("        elif module == 'numpy':\n")
    f.write("            result.append(np)\n")
    f.write("        elif module == 'pygame.midi':\n")
    f.write("            result.append(midi)\n")
    f.write("    return tuple(result)\n")

input("\nPress [enter] to exit")
```

It also spits a `ANPath.py` file that the addon uses to import the third party modules.

Anyway, save the script somewhere as `dependencysetup.py` and double-click it to run.

### Install Audio Nodes

Download the AudioNodes addon as a zip. Then go to `User Preferences > Addons > Install from File ...` and pick the archive. Enable the addon and you should be good to go.

### I am running Linux

We have found that Audio Nodes has a greater chance of working (especially with MIDI setups) on versions of Blender that are installed through a package manager. We speculate that this is due to them using a standard Python 3 release.

### Basic setup

On Ubuntu run this command:

`sudo apt-get install python3-numpy python3-pip`

On Archlinux, install `pip` and `numpy` with `sudo pacman -S python-pip python-numpy`.


Regardless of your distribution, install `PyGame` from `pip` with `pip3 install PyGame --user`.

On other systems, try to install similar packages.

### Aside on MIDI input

You can use a MIDI keyboard with Audio Nodes. This however requires some extra steps. You will have to install alsaseq. It is available through `pip`, but I never got it to build right. This slightly modified version of an older release seems to work fine, though. Download (this)[https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B0nfZWGohnB7MG4wMnZ6RzUyb0E/view?usp=sharing] zip file and unpack it where you want. Navigate into it and run:

```
sudo python3 setup.py build
sudo python3 setup.py install
```

The archive is an old version (only one that I got to build) of alsaseq, see here: (Alsaseq home site)[http://pp.com.mx/python/alsaseq/]

To connect to a midi keyboard, add a `Piano` node and hit `Keyboard capture`. This should create an alsa socket to connect a MIDI device to. A nice GUI tool to do this is QjackCtl. After launching it go to `Connect > Alsa [tab]` and hook up the USB midi on the left to Audionodes on the right. To kill the sound from the piano node quickly, hit escape on the keyboard.

### Main installation

Download this repository as a zip and load that zip into Blender through `User Preferences > Addons > Install from File...`. Then enable the addon by checking the checkbox.

### Troubleshooting

If there is an error when activating the addon, you are probably not using the right Python installation. To remedy this, open a terminal and run `python3`. There type:

```
import sys
sys.path
```

On my machine the output looks like:

```
['', '/usr/local/lib/python3.5/dist-packages/alsaseq-0.4-py3.5-linux-x86_64.egg', '/usr/lib/python3/dist-packages', '/usr/lib/python35.zip', '/usr/lib/python3.5', '/usr/lib/python3.5/plat-x86_64-linux-gnu', '/usr/lib/python3.5/lib-dynload', '/usr/local/lib/python3.5/dist-packages']
```

Copy the output of the command. In Blender go to ```Scripting``` (from the dropdown in the very upper bar that says `Default`) and write the following into the console:

```
import sys
sys.path.extend(whatever your output was)
```

This terminal lets you copy and paste using Ctrl + C and Ctrl + V.

Now go and enable the addon, it should work.

### I am running macOS

With `Homebrew` installed, run `brew install python3` to (among other things) setup `pip`correctly. Then install NumPy with `pip3 install numpy --user` and PyGame with `pip3 install PyGame --user`.


Then download this repository as a zip. In Blender, go to `File > User Preferences > Addons > Install from File...`. Pick the downloaded archuve and then check the checkbox to enable the addon.

### Troubleshooting

If there is an error when enabling the addon, you are probably not using the right Python installation. To remedy this, open a terminal and run `python3`. There type:

```
import sys
sys.path
```

On my machine the output looks like:

```
['', '/usr/local/lib/python3.5/dist-packages/alsaseq-0.4-py3.5-linux-x86_64.egg', '/usr/lib/python3/dist-packages', '/usr/lib/python35.zip', '/usr/lib/python3.5', '/usr/lib/python3.5/plat-x86_64-linux-gnu', '/usr/lib/python3.5/lib-dynload', '/usr/local/lib/python3.5/dist-packages']
```

Copy the output of the command. In Blender go to ```Scripting``` (from the dropdown in the very upper bar that says `Default`) and write the following into the console:

```
import sys
sys.path.extend(whatever your output was)
```

This terminal lets you copy and paste using Ctrl + C and Ctrl + V.

Now go and enable the addon, it should work.

### It still doesn't work

Please open an issue. Hopefully we can fix it.

## How does one use this sorcery?!

We start by creating a new node setup:

<a href="http://imgur.com/pz2aQMr"><img src="http://i.imgur.com/pz2aQMr.png" title="source: imgur.com" /></a>

We will first add a `Sink` (`Shift + A > Outputs > Sink`). That is where our sound will go at the end.

<a href="http://imgur.com/vsMk0Ez"><img src="http://i.imgur.com/vsMk0Ez.png" title="source: imgur.com" /></a>

Let's try something simple: we will play a 400Hz sine wave. This is mostly to test our setup. Go add a `Inputs > Sine` and type `400` into the topmost input. Then (while aware of a possibly loud sound), hook it up to the sink:

<a href="http://imgur.com/kXsd1sT"><img src="http://i.imgur.com/kXsd1sT.png" title="source: imgur.com" /></a>

You should hear a continuous beep. Let's make it more interesting. Add another Sine and give it a frequency of `10`, a `Range` of `0.3` and an `Offset` of `0.7`. Then hook it up to the first Sine's `Range` Like here:

<a href="http://imgur.com/z77ttYf"><img src="http://i.imgur.com/z77ttYf.png" title="source: imgur.com" /></a>

What this does is change the volume of the sound we had before (that's what range does) along a smooth curve (a sine wave) ten times per second (that is: at 10Hz, 1Hz meaning basically once per second). The range means that this curve moves within `0.3` of it's default range vertically. Together with the `Offset` and knowing that by default the range is -1 to 1, that means that the volume of our sound varies between 70% + 30% = 100% and 70% - 30% = 40%.

We can even make this playable by keyboard: plug in a `Piano` input like so:

<a href="http://imgur.com/yG1n4Rf"><img src="http://i.imgur.com/yG1n4Rf.png" title="source: imgur.com" /></a>

Activate it by hitting the `Keyboard capture` button and terminate it by hitting `Esc` on your keyboard. While the `Piano` node is activated, you can play with your keyboard: the keys from `§` to `0` are one octave. MIDI keyboard support is being planned.

### Interesting setups

We have made up a gist with interesting Audionodes setups, see here: https://gist.github.com/nomelif/759d6963c3ded049268f6e6ada855d3f. They are complete with samples on SoundCloud.

#### Sonar [TODO: Move to the Gist]

This imitates a sonar ping:

<a href="http://imgur.com/T7KP32w"><img src="http://i.imgur.com/T7KP32w.png" title="source: imgur.com" /></a>

Commit message:

Update status about midi on Windows

README.md, after:

# Audionodes

Audio generation in blender nodes.

We now support MIDI keyboards on both Linux and Windows.

_We support Windows now! Testing and reporting back of errors is highly encouraged!_

Lisenced under GPLv.3. (https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html)

## Install

For now Audionodes doesn't come with the required libraries. You need to install `PyGame` and `NumPy` for it to work.

### I am running Windows

### Installing python

We need a fresh Python interpreter on Windows. Grab the one that matches your architechture. Grab the one that matches Blender's Python. As of writing this, that is Python 3.5. If you are running a 64-bit copy of windows, download Python (here)[https://www.python.org/ftp/python/3.5.2/python-3.5.2-amd64-webinstall.exe]. If you are running a 32-bit one, (here)[https://www.python.org/ftp/python/3.5.2/python-3.5.2-webinstall.exe].

For this part, just follow the on-screen instructions.

### Installing dependences.

Here is a nifty little script that installs all it needs:

```
import pip
print("Installing PyGame")
pip.main(["install", "PyGame", "--user"])
print("\nInstalling NumPy")
pip.main(["install", "NumPy", "--user"])
import sys
import os
import os.path

with open(os.getenv('APPDATA')+"/ANPath.py", "w") as f:
    f.write("def importAll(modules):\n")
    f.write("    import os\n")
    f.write("    wd = os.getcwd()\n")
    f.write("    import sys\n")
    f.write("    sys.path.extend("+str(sys.path)+")\n")
    f.write("    os.chdir("+str([os.path.abspath(os.path.join(os.getenv('APPDATA'), os.pardir))+"\\Local\\Programs\\Python\\Python35"])[1:-1]+")\n")
    f.write("    import numpy as np\n")
    f.write("    import pygame as p\n")
    f.write("    import pygame.midi as midi\n")
    f.write("    os.chdir(wd)\n")
    f.write("    result = []\n")
    f.write("    for module in modules:\n")
    f.write("        if module == 'pygame':\n")
    f.write("            result.append(p)\n")
    f.write("        elif module == 'numpy':\n")
    f.write("            result.append(np)\n")
    f.write("        elif module == 'pygame.midi':\n")
    f.write("            result.append(midi)\n")
    f.write("    return tuple(result)\n")

input("\nPress [enter] to exit")
```

It also spits a `ANPath.py` file that the addon uses to import the third party modules.

Anyway, save the script somewhere as `dependencysetup.py` and double-click it to run.

### Install Audio Nodes

Download the AudioNodes addon as a zip. Then go to `User Preferences > Addons > Install from File ...` and pick the archive. Enable the addon and you should be good to go. Midi keyboards should be autodetected.

### I am running Linux

We have found that Audio Nodes has a greater chance of working (especially with MIDI setups) on versions of Blender that are installed through a package manager. We speculate that this is due to them using a standard Python 3 release.

### Basic setup

On Ubuntu run this command:

`sudo apt-get install python3-numpy python3-pip`

On Archlinux, install `pip` and `numpy` with `sudo pacman -S python-pip python-numpy`.


Regardless of your distribution, install `PyGame` from `pip` with `pip3 install PyGame --user`.

On other systems, try to install similar packages.

### Aside on MIDI input

You can use a MIDI keyboard with Audio Nodes. It is possible that it may work out of the box, but we recommend installing Alsaseq. It is available through `pip`, but I never got it to build right. This slightly modified version of an older release seems to work fine, though. Download (this)[https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B0nfZWGohnB7MG4wMnZ6RzUyb0E/view?usp=sharing] zip file and unpack it where you want. Navigate into it and run:

```
sudo python3 setup.py build
sudo python3 setup.py install
```

The archive is an old version (only one that I got to build) of alsaseq, see here: (Alsaseq home site)[http://pp.com.mx/python/alsaseq/]

To connect to a midi keyboard, add a `Piano` node and hit `Keyboard capture`. This should create an alsa socket to connect a MIDI device to. A nice GUI tool to do this is QjackCtl. After launching it go to `Connect > Alsa [tab]` and hook up the USB midi on the left to Audionodes on the right. To kill the sound from the piano node quickly, hit escape on the keyboard.

### Main installation

Download this repository as a zip and load that zip into Blender through `User Preferences > Addons > Install from File...`. Then enable the addon by checking the checkbox.

### Troubleshooting

If there is an error when activating the addon, you are probably not using the right Python installation. To remedy this, open a terminal and run `python3`. There type:

```
import sys
sys.path
```

On my machine the output looks like:

```
['', '/usr/local/lib/python3.5/dist-packages/alsaseq-0.4-py3.5-linux-x86_64.egg', '/usr/lib/python3/dist-packages', '/usr/lib/python35.zip', '/usr/lib/python3.5', '/usr/lib/python3.5/plat-x86_64-linux-gnu', '/usr/lib/python3.5/lib-dynload', '/usr/local/lib/python3.5/dist-packages']
```

Copy the output of the command. In Blender go to ```Scripting``` (from the dropdown in the very upper bar that says `Default`) and write the following into the console:

```
import sys
sys.path.extend(whatever your output was)
```

This terminal lets you copy and paste using Ctrl + C and Ctrl + V.

Now go and enable the addon, it should work.

### I am running macOS

With `Homebrew` installed, run `brew install python3` to (among other things) setup `pip`correctly. Then install NumPy with `pip3 install numpy --user` and PyGame with `pip3 install PyGame --user`.


Then download this repository as a zip. In Blender, go to `File > User Preferences > Addons > Install from File...`. Pick the downloaded archuve and then check the checkbox to enable the addon.

### Troubleshooting

If there is an error when enabling the addon, you are probably not using the right Python installation. To remedy this, open a terminal and run `python3`. There type:

```
import sys
sys.path
```

On my machine the output looks like:

```
['', '/usr/local/lib/python3.5/dist-packages/alsaseq-0.4-py3.5-linux-x86_64.egg', '/usr/lib/python3/dist-packages', '/usr/lib/python35.zip', '/usr/lib/python3.5', '/usr/lib/python3.5/plat-x86_64-linux-gnu', '/usr/lib/python3.5/lib-dynload', '/usr/local/lib/python3.5/dist-packages']
```

Copy the output of the command. In Blender go to ```Scripting``` (from the dropdown in the very upper bar that says `Default`) and write the following into the console:

```
import sys
sys.path.extend(whatever your output was)
```

This terminal lets you copy and paste using Ctrl + C and Ctrl + V.

Now go and enable the addon, it should work.

### It still doesn't work

Please open an issue. Hopefully we can fix it.

## How does one use this sorcery?!

We start by creating a new node setup:

<a href="http://imgur.com/pz2aQMr"><img src="http://i.imgur.com/pz2aQMr.png" title="source: imgur.com" /></a>

We will first add a `Sink` (`Shift + A > Outputs > Sink`). That is where our sound will go at the end.

<a href="http://imgur.com/vsMk0Ez"><img src="http://i.imgur.com/vsMk0Ez.png" title="source: imgur.com" /></a>

Let's try something simple: we will play a 400Hz sine wave. This is mostly to test our setup. Go add a `Inputs > Sine` and type `400` into the topmost input. Then (while aware of a possibly loud sound), hook it up to the sink:

<a href="http://imgur.com/kXsd1sT"><img src="http://i.imgur.com/kXsd1sT.png" title="source: imgur.com" /></a>

You should hear a continuous beep. Let's make it more interesting. Add another Sine and give it a frequency of `10`, a `Range` of `0.3` and an `Offset` of `0.7`. Then hook it up to the first Sine's `Range` Like here:

<a href="http://imgur.com/z77ttYf"><img src="http://i.imgur.com/z77ttYf.png" title="source: imgur.com" /></a>

What this does is change the volume of the sound we had before (that's what range does) along a smooth curve (a sine wave) ten times per second (that is: at 10Hz, 1Hz meaning basically once per second). The range means that this curve moves within `0.3` of it's default range vertically. Together with the `Offset` and knowing that by default the range is -1 to 1, that means that the volume of our sound varies between 70% + 30% = 100% and 70% - 30% = 40%.

We can even make this playable by keyboard: plug in a `Piano` input like so:

<a href="http://imgur.com/yG1n4Rf"><img src="http://i.imgur.com/yG1n4Rf.png" title="source: imgur.com" /></a>

Activate it by hitting the `Keyboard capture` button and terminate it by hitting `Esc` on your keyboard. While the `Piano` node is activated, you can play with your keyboard: the keys from `§` to `0` are one octave. MIDI keyboard support is being planned.

### Interesting setups

We have made up a gist with interesting Audionodes setups, see here: https://gist.github.com/nomelif/759d6963c3ded049268f6e6ada855d3f. They are complete with samples on SoundCloud.

#### Sonar [TODO: Move to the Gist]

This imitates a sonar ping:

<a href="http://imgur.com/T7KP32w"><img src="http://i.imgur.com/T7KP32w.png" title="source: imgur.com" /></a>
